Forecasting Demand Yeah, you might need a crystal ball.
Forecasting can be challenging.
So let's discover the possibilities and opportunities.
The point is that you don't want it to be waiting for demand to come to you,
but reach out and talk to your customers to plan for
demand that is coming in the future.
Are you reacting or planning your demand?
You are probably just like the rest of us, probably reacting more than planning.
Now, being reactive is basically acting in response to a situation,
rather than creating or controlling the situation.
Now, the situation is usually unplanned, so it just happens.
And the activity that is the demand is being pushed to you.
Proactive is where you are creating or controlling the
situation by causing something to happen,
rather than responding to it after it has happened.
The activity is planned, and you are pulling the demand to you.
Now let's see how this applies to our work types.
Reactive/proactive versus our work types.
Typically, operations are very reactive,
usually not proactive with a very heavy ticket orientation.
Projects tend to not be very reactive but typically more proactive,
because projects take more work that is resources.
They usually need more lead time, hence more planning-oriented.
Now initiatives are rarely reactive, usually very proactive,
hence initiatives need a longer planning phase.
Certainly, there are exceptions to these,
but in general, this is what you might expect.
Let's see what we can do to better prepare ourself for what's coming.
Forecasting Demand Forecasting is certainly easier said than done,
that business world today is so dynamic and fast-moving.
But maybe there are a few things we can do, and you can't be shy.
You got to get out there.
Now these recommendations would basically apply to all of the work types.
Demand is your friend.
Your backlog helps you show your management what is on your
plate in an organized and trackable method,
not just, "Gee, I'm really busy.
" Track all demand.
By tracking your demand for operations, projects,
and initiatives,
you will have data that can be used to help plan and
forecast what may be coming down the road.
Use automated tool or tools.
Be sure they are easy to use by your team,
easy for your manager to view progress and status,
and easy for your customers that that make sense for them to see it,
to view as well.
Report on historical demand.
Historical data may help you predict the future.
Prepare a six, 12, or 18 month average backlog.
Remember,
we've talked about the key attributes we gather for
each backlog item for operations, projects,
and initiatives.
Based on that data, we could average total backlog by month and hours,
and use this as a baseline for future budgets,
resources, and projections.
Forecast future backlog by using the historical data plus any new business data
such as the company is adding 10% more orders per quarter.
You could make a rough forecast of what you may need in the future.
By using the backlog and their estimates,
you could propose a business case to secure more resources.
And without tracking, you absolutely cannot do this in a methodical, organized way.